[Transcript missing]
So why do we want to talk about Keynote?
And I think the main reason we
want to do this is because Keynote
is very platform compelling.
It's an application that
uses a lot of technologies,
and at the same time it's really
simple and it's really powerful.
It's kind of like Mac OS X.
Mac OS X has got the
power of Unix at the core,
it's also got a very simple expression
in terms of the Acura user interface,
and that combination is fantastic.
One of the reasons Keynote is really
able to do this is because Keynote
uses the core technology that's
built into the operating system.
So the Keynote team was able
to really sort of think about
how do they make a great app?
How do they make a great app
that adds value to what the user
is attempting to do with it,
rather than have to worry about
architecting graphics engines,
architecting 3D transition
effects using their own engine?
And that's a very important
point as moving forward,
as you guys really engage the platform
and develop your own sort of platform
compelling Mac OS X applications,
is where does the engineering
that Apple does every year that
we improve the operating system,
what advantage does that give you in
terms of if you adopt that technology,
what can you do somewhere else
inside your application to add
value to your user experience,
because you don't have to worry
about the dredgery of inventing
your own technology portfolio?
And then one of the key points is a lot
of the technologies that Keynote uses are
very important technologies for Apple.
There are things like Cocoa, Quartz 2D,
our new 2D drawing API, QuickTime,
our multimedia architecture,
and obviously we spend a lot of
time talking about OpenGL and how
that's the gateway to access that.
So the gateway to accessing
the power of the GPU.
And then also we're going to
talk a little bit about XML.
XML is a way to contain
document information.
And then I think the key
point is these applications,
these technologies are available
for you to use as well.
And then one of the other things we
wanted to do is essentially enable
you to learn a little bit from the
development cycle of an application
that's being brought up with all these
new Mac OS X specific technologies.
And part of what the Keynote,
this presentation is
going to communicate,
in addition to which technologies
are adopted where in the world,
is to actually provide areas where, hey,
the technology wasn't a perfect fit
and we had to do some working around,
and we had to do something special
to make it work for application.
Because many of those cases are
significant for you as developers as
well as you adopt those technologies.
So it's my pleasure
to invite Brad Vaughn,
the Keynote
Engineering Manager at this stage,
who's going to take you
through the presentation.
Thank you.
Thanks, Travis.
I'm Brad Vaughan.
I manage the Keynote engineering team.
And we'll do a quick demo
of the application in case
you're not familiar with it.
Actually, can I get a show?
Who's used the app?
And I know you've all seen
it because you're at WWDC,
you're looking at Keynote all day, right?
But first I want to emphasize the
two things that Travis kind of
touched on that I want to kind of
make themes for my talk here today.
Those are the things that make
Keynote great are the technologies
that are available in OS X.
And I want to talk about those in depth.
And the second point
is that in some cases,
the high-level APIs,
maybe the out-of-the-box functionality
isn't exactly what you need.
I'll show you, in fact,
in some cases I'll show you
code that explains how we
worked around those issues,
how we extended the available frameworks,
etc.
So let's take a look at the app.
So the first thing, this is Keynote.
First thing you see is this,
what we call the theme chooser.
You have out of the box 12
beautifully designed themes that
are created by Apple designers,
each of which contain nicely
coordinated background graphics,
fonts, colors, shadows, et cetera.
So let's create a new document
with this leather book theme,
for example.
Create the document.
The first thing you see
is on our main window,
it's very simple.
This is Aqua.
This is standard UI controls
that everybody's used to,
something that's easy for
users to get into and quickly
manipulate their own documents.
Over here we have...
What's called our slide navigator.
So I can easily kind of
move around my slides,
organize my slideshow like this.
It's very simple.
Got other views.
We can edit outlines if you've
got a text-oriented presentation,
but let's take a look at this one.
I can change masters.
Let me show you a feature
we call alignment guides.
This is a bad example.
Let me show you here.
You can see our alignment
guides a little better.
You notice these little
yellow lines snap.
These are actually
static alignment guides.
When I create new objects on my slide,
I get dynamic alignment guides,
so I can easily manipulate my
graphics and I get a new alignment
guide so I can center these guys.
If you do a lot of graphically
rich presentations,
this is very nice.
Couple other features.
Let me see, make another blank.
Make a new slide and show you our charts.
So charts and tables are
built into the application.
You don't have to go out to an external
utility or another app to create a chart.
So I just click my chart button there.
I've got a data editor.
I can go in and edit my data live,
updates my histogram.
So that's kind of the
gross control of my chart.
I can move my legend around, resize,
et cetera.
Over here is my chart inspector.
So I get kind of more
fine-grained control.
And I can pick from
several varieties of chart.
Here's a pie chart.
As you see, the content that's created
when I create text or I create
a chart or create a table,
it's all nicely integrated
with the template,
the style that I've chosen,
which in this case is LeatherBook.
So really, it's kind of hard to make
a presentation that's ugly.
You have to do some work.
So yeah, so I've got--
A lot of control over how
I manipulate my chart there.
So let's take a look at another feature,
tables.
It's as easy as clicking
the table button.
Over here, it's automatically switched
to my table inspector.
Let's make a table of two rows and
I'll put some content in there.
Let's see, I can't have all caps.
Try a few shapes in there.
This will invariably
be in the wrong column,
but I'll put it in there.
Researches microscope.
I missed one.
As I can resize my columns,
it's very fast.
The graphics smoothly scale, text wraps.
And let's do a little build.
So as I do my actual presentation
as I'm showing the slides,
I can build the content onto the slide.
And we've got several options for that.
So I'll pick my table.
And for instance,
this is my build inspector.
I can pick, for instance, a flip build,
we call it.
And that would-- here's
my little preview.
This would build the
entire table all at once.
I can also deliver it, say,
by row or by column.
So let's take a look at what it looks
like if I build this guy on by column.
One, two, three columns.
Very smooth.
Finally, well,
let me show you next to last,
our export formats.
We support QuickTime export,
so you can generate a QuickTime movie
that contains all the transitions,
3D builds, et cetera,
ship it off to a user
on another platform,
and they can share it.
We also support
PowerPoint export and PDF.
So, let me show you finally a sampling
of some of our 3D transitions.
This is a simple kind of fade transition,
a push, a move.
These are all--this is the
set of 2D transitions that
we provide out of the box,
wipe transition and a pivot.
Finally, a drop,
so you drop one slide over the other.
Getting into the 3D transitions,
that's called Twirl.
This is a large mosaic.
And most of these
transitions you can control,
no, all of the transitions,
you can control their speed,
several you can control their direction.
Perhaps they come from the center,
they move out or in.
There's a flip, a 3D flip.
horizontal 3D flip, and finally theCUBE,
everybody's favorite.
So that's Keynote.
We want to talk about the technologies,
the things that make Keynote great.
First,
we'll talk about application frameworks.
Keynote built on Cocoa.
We'll talk about why we think Cocoa is
a great basis for your applications.
One of the things Cocoa provides is
very simple high-level access to the
text technologies that make OS X great.
Things you get from Atsui, Quartz, etc.
We'll talk about Quartz.
Keynote really excels at creating
graphically rich presentations,
and we get all that power from Quartz.
I'll show you some code that we
use to manage images in Quartz.
Obviously, OpenGL,
the examples I just showed you.
Great 2D and 3D effects
that we use OpenGL.
We'll talk about some of the
kit support for OpenGL as well.
Rich media support that
you get from QuickTime and,
you know, it's not just about
playing movies on slides.
and Chris Lester,
are the founders of QuickTime.
Finally, we use XML as our file format.
Really excited about that.
There's been some community
support for our format,
and I'll talk about the operating
system support that's there for XML.
So first, application frameworks.
When we chose, when we sat down to decide
how we're gonna start Keynote,
the main thing we wanted to do was kind
of emphasize the power that's in OS X,
the graphical, the power behind the
graphical technologies that
are in there like OpenGL,
Quark, Time and Quartz.
So we wanted first-class integration with
those technologies with this framework.
We choose a high-level framework,
we wanna be able to get the maximum
out of each of these technologies.
We wanna be able to grab
powerful components from the kit.
Okay, so we wanna be able to, you know,
use a lot of these things out of the box.
We don't have to reinvent the wheel
for things like UI components,
et cetera.
But we want the components to be flexible
and extendable enough that we can,
you know, tweak the parameters,
tweak a few things,
get the look and feel,
the capabilities we want without
having to extend everything.
But we wanna be able to extend it and
override certain behaviors if we want.
to
We want great performance.
We don't want layers and layers
of software between us and the
application and the core components,
the core technologies in
OS X that we want to use.
For instance, OpenGL.
We want to make sure we have
very fast access to OpenGL.
High-level access to, again,
the graphic capabilities,
the graphic technologies
that come with OS X.
Quartz, OpenGL and QuickTime.
With Cocoa, you get the standard flexible
UI controls that everybody's used
to in the OS X operating system,
the Aqua user interface.
And as Aqua progresses,
as new releases of Cocoa come out,
we're kind of reaping
the benefits of those.
If you saw the Scott Forstall
talk yesterday,
the tab view is improving.
The switch view is improving.
So we're going to get those benefits.
NS Image with Cocoa gives you access to
not only native formats that NS Image
[Transcript missing]
Koko provides macros and classes that
make it very easy to localize your app,
provide your app for multiple languages.
And with Koko, you're using Mako.
You've got great compatibility with
the runtime throughout the system.
And you've got NSBundle,
the ability to load running code,
executable code,
and resources into your app.
And in Keynote, all our transitions,
all our builds, our 3D builds,
I think our exporters and our
inspectors are all loadable bundles.
So in theory,
people can load new ones in.
For ease of development,
we love Objective-C.
Objective-C, an object-oriented language,
very, very powerful dynamic runtime.
But it's simple enough.
You can take-- it's got a small
surface area of specific features
that are in the language.
So you take a Java programmer,
an ANSI C programmer,
it's a very small learning curve to
bring them up to speed on Objective-C.
And this, as project builders,
should just say tools, right?
Because it's not just project builder.
Now it's Xcode.
I'm looking forward to
using Xcode quite a bit.
Project builder,
a full-featured integrated
development environment with
features like indexed code,
syntax, coloring, documentation built in,
source code management integration.
And the other tools like, you know,
malloc debug, sampler,
things that let you ship a
high-quality application.
So why we chose Cocoa.
First class integration with the
graphical technologies that we really
wanted to highlight in OS X really was
gonna make Keynote a great application.
Powerful components, things you can grab,
use out of the box,
they're flexible enough that you
can tweak them to your desires
and extendable enough that you
can tweak them even further.
Best of breed tools like
Project Builder and now Xcode.
So let's talk about specific
features that Cocoa provides,
like Cocoa Text.
Well, with OS X,
you really get capabilities from
several layers of the operating system.
In Quartz, you know, anti-alias text,
something we've all come to expect now.
AtSuite,
Apple's type system for Unicode imaging,
provides Unicode,
multiple input handlers, styled text,
and the typographic features that
I'll display in a minute here.
And what you get from Cocoa is
just some of the application-level
features like undo,
key bindings.
You have things we don't
use so much in Keynote,
like formatted text input.
So let's look very quickly at some
of the text capabilities in Keynote.
Starting with a blank slide, just click,
create a new text object.
Bring up the font panel.
You've got access to all the
fonts available in the system,
TrueType, PostScript, et cetera.
I don't have my slider,
so I'm not showing exactly
how smoothly it can resize,
but you know.
It's anti-aliased, razor sharp,
looks great.
Let me go to my text
inspector here in Keynote.
So I have control over
simple things like alignment,
color,
I also can manipulate
the character spacing.
This is all built into Cocoa,
no code required here.
And you have fine control over character
spacing within a certain range of text.
And designers love this capability.
So if I go to my next slide,
I've got some multi-line text.
I can control the line spacing,
negative line spacing.
And I want to talk about ligatures.
So this is an example of a ligature,
which is just an elegant way of combining
characters that's built into these fonts.
This is the Zapfino font.
So T and H are actually
-- it's one glyph,
one character glyph.
When I type T-H, it combines it.
But you can also
manipulate those ligatures.
And this is built into Cocoa.
So if I turn off the
ligature on that combination,
[Transcript missing]
So again,
advanced features with CocoaText,
kerning character spacing,
Unicode character sets.
So we've got some kanji here in
the really nice Hidagino font.
Ligatures.
There was one feature
we needed in Keynote,
and essentially you've already seen it,
that wasn't supported in Cocoa Text,
and that's this kind of
cascaded style sheet.
We wanted to be able to
let the user pick a theme,
pick a master slide,
and it's got a certain design.
They get those design attributes.
They make a change,
then they may pick another theme.
We want to preserve the style
changes that the user made.
Let me show you how that would work.
So the user creates a new show,
and they use the white theme.
Type a little text.
Make an attribute change.
So they've gone from...
and others have been
working on the application.
We've changed the background,
added graphics, changed the font,
added a little shadow in this case,
but we've preserved the attribute
changes that the user made,
so we've still got bolded
text in the last word.
Another capability this gives the
user is they can kind of revert.
All additional changes,
all overrides that they've
made can be reverted out.
We'll just go back to
the standard style sheet.
So continuing from the last example,
here we are on the crayon theme.
The user goes to menu and says,
"Reapply master to selection."
and the overrides go away.
So we wanna go back to the
standard master or cascaded
style sheet set of attributes.
Cocoa Text doesn't really
support this and here's a...
[Transcript missing]
That wasn't going to quite do it for us.
That's a flattened set of attributes.
We needed to be able to say which
attributes existed on the master,
which ones were created by the user.
So how we did this,
we extended the NSTextStorage
by creating a subclass.
NSTextStorage is called
a semi-concrete class.
When you make a subclass
of NSTextStorage,
you're expected to provide
your own data storage.
In this case, it's on the bottom.
It's the attributed string,
which is just an NSMutable
attributed string that contains all
the attributes that the user sees,
both inherited from the style
sheet and added by the user.
What we also added was this
master attributes dictionary.
This is the set of attributes
that existed in the dictionary
when the user created this text.
So it would be the last example,
you know, the Gil Sands font at
size 14 or something.
When you create a
subclass of NSTextStorage,
again, it's the semi-concrete class,
you have to provide the data storage,
you have to override certain methods.
This is the list of methods
you have to override.
String returns just a plain
string with no attributes.
Attributes at index effective range
tells me that at index 4 I've got,
or at index 7 in the last example,
I've got 10 characters
of text that are bold.
Replace characters and range is
what happens when the user types or
and text is pasted in,
set attributes and arrange, again,
which I actually covered last time
on the last slide was just applying
attributes to a range of characters.
What we added in our subclass,
we have an initializer that
just takes the set of styles
that exist on the master slide.
We have a method that returns
whether an override exists,
excuse me,
so that is used for menu enabling,
or menu validation.
Does this menu need to be turned on?
Is there an override?
Can the user revert this string?
Reapply master attributes,
which is what happens when
the user clicks that menu.
That's basically the way
that's implemented is we take
the dictionary that exists,
we apply it to the entire
range of the string.
Set master attributes is kind
of the money method here.
What this guy does is he looks
at the existing set of master
attributes in the string,
compares them to the new set.
This guy is called when the
user changes the master slide or
changes the cascaded style sheet.
We say, "Okay.
For each run of text,
for each effective range of styled text,
Does an attribute exist
in the old master?
If so, let's replace it with the
attributes in the new master.
That preserves the stuff
that's been changed,
the stuff that didn't exist in
the old master attribute list.
So CocoaText,
you have a great set of features,
typography, Unicode text, out of the box.
It just works with Cocoa and
the set of kind of application
level undo and key bindings.
Minimal amount of coding
to get at those features.
And they're all supported in the UI.
You know, the standard menus for cut,
paste, manage kerning, ligatures, fonts,
et cetera, just work out of the box.
But as we all know,
after watching some of these slides,
great presentations are
not built on text alone.
All the graphical features you get
in Keynote come from Quartz 2D.
Very quick overview of what
you get with Quartz 2D.
Path-based drawing, vector-based drawing,
so we draw our shapes with paths and
they resize perfectly and all that.
Control of stroke and dash settings.
Bitmap image rendering.
It's based on PDF.
You can actually have control over
drawing PDF documents or sections
of PDF documents or PDF clip art.
[Transcript missing]
Translation, scaling, shearing,
et cetera.
And transparency, awesome alpha blending,
which again I'll show.
Let's take a look.
There's a blank slate.
I'll just throw a couple shapes on.
And these guys come
on with an image fill.
Let me look at my graphics inspector.
So I can change to say a gradient fill.
- This is supported by Quartz.
I can change my colors, change the angle,
make it semi-opaque,
It's very fast.
Out of stroke, various dash styles.
"Expect opacity here.
Changes the order."
And here's some images.
So, these images are very high quality,
but they rotate very fast.
[Transcript missing]
So again,
Quartz features path-based drawing,
PDF drawing.
We've got a shape with a standard color
and stroke and an image where now I've
added a gradient fill and a shadow.
The thing I didn't mention about shadows.
What we wanted in Keynote was
shadows that are a lot like what
you get from the menu in OS X or the
Windows and didn't really have that.
We had to actually add
some code to do that.
The good news is in Panther,
the shadow APIs are available,
so you guys hopefully won't have
to do quite as much as we did.
Again, back to the features.
Anti-alias text.
Image drawing, alpha blending,
and great performance.
Quartz 2D,
you have a PDF-based imaging model,
the same imaging model that
sends information to the display,
that draws what you see,
is what's sent to your printer drivers
for raster and postscript output.
ColorSync, color syncing both to the
display and to your output device
and on compatible hardware.
Quartz Extreme for GPU accelerated
window compositing.
Now, what do we need in Keynote
that we didn't get from Quartz?
We wanted professional
quality image manipulation.
As you may know, if you heard the Keynote
at Macworld San Francisco,
it was designed for Steve Jobs,
and he's using these very,
very high quality images, multi-megabyte,
and we can't sit around and wait while
we're rotating and resizing these images.
So manipulation has to be fast,
but we also have to quickly move.
It's a presentation app.
We have to quickly go back
and forth through slides.
Well, with Quartz,
high quality resize is built in.
Here's an example of
how you do it in Cocoa.
You just grab a graphics context
and set high image interpolation,
set NSImage interpolation high,
and Quartz goes off and does
more complicated scaling.
If you're not using Cocoa,
you can still do this in Core Graphics.
Grab the graphics port,
use a different flag.
It's available.
Now, talking about image manipulation,
when a user rotates or
moves an image around,
we want the interaction to be very,
very fast.
So what we do is we cache a smaller
representation of that image.
So if the user is using
a 50 megabyte TIFF file,
we'll actually save a smaller
version if the user is resizing,
for instance.
This is a kind of abbreviated UML.
Our image view is what the user
actually sees and manipulates on
what we call the slide canvas.
The image model,
In this instance,
the instance variable is called myImage.
That's kind of the canonical
image that the user brought in
from the finder or they pasted.
So we're keeping track
of the original image,
but in many cases,
and I'll show you where
we create this guy,
we have a cached image that
we use to render instead,
and it's much faster.
So on our canvas,
if the user mouses down,
we determine whether an
image was selected and tell
it to dynamically resize.
Within that method,
when the image view is
told to dynamically resize,
it determines whether the
model has changed enough that
it's actually worth doing.
So we say if this image is,
say in this case, 90% scaled,
then we'll create a cached image.
We'll just make a copy, sock it away,
on subsequent renders,
we'll just render the cached image,
and this actually makes a big
difference in interaction performance.
Another challenge.
So when creating multi-page PDF,
as you see in this example,
all these slides use,
I think with the exception
of the first one,
they all use the same background image.
The last two use the
same piece of clip art,
this calendar.
The one and the eight are actually text,
so it looks pretty good.
The charts in this
example use an image fill,
so it's kind of a repeating image.
When we generate PDF,
we want to make sure that we're not
sending these images out to PDF,
to our PDF stream multiple times.
How do we do that?
Well, PDF supports this optimization.
You write the image once and
then use this X object reference,
and PDF will go back and read
it out of the original stream.
CG ImageRef supports this capability.
Let me show you how we create it.
create these CG images.
Again, back to our UMM model.
The image model contains the original
NS image that we've instantiated
from the finder or pulled in
off the clipboard or whatever.
We also keep track of a CG image ref.
It uses the same data.
As long as we use that
CG image ref to render,
We'll get this optimization
in our PDF output.
So to create a CG image ref,
you have to create a CG data provider.
So you can create it.
If you've got an image,
if you have an NS bitmap image rep,
which image rep in this example is.
Image rep is an NS bitmap image rep.
We just pull the bitmap data out,
tell the data provider what the
depth is and how big the image is,
create that provider,
hand that off to CG image create.
CG image create, again,
you tell it how big the
image is going to be,
how big you want to render it.
The depth, a couple other flags that
control the color space.
These are kind of the default flags here,
what the alpha value is.
And when you want to draw the CG image,
the CG image variable that I've got here,
which is a CG image ref, to draw that,
you just draw it to the graphics port,
the current graphics context,
and tell it how big you want to draw.
As long as you draw that
to your PDF output context,
you're going to get
this optimized output.
So, to summarize Quartz:
rich 2D capabilities, path-based drawing,
PDF model, all available to you.
Layered APIs, if it turns out you're
using Cocoa or whatever,
Java, and the APIs aren't available,
you've always got core graphics,
which is the Quartz kind
of standard layer of APIs.
And phenomenal performance
with Quartz Extreme.
Now, that was one of our 3D transitions.
All the editing on a Keynote
slide canvas is Quartz,
but how do we get this core graphics,
these Quartz objects,
up to the screen in OpenGL so we can
do these kind of cinematic effects?
So there's, again, the 3D effect.
We've also got the 2D effects,
so there's a drop.
And we can not only apply these
effects to a slide transition
from one slide to another,
but also objects that
are going onto the slide.
So there's a 3D text build,
a little flip.
We can also build objects off the slide.
So here's a scale.
Okay.
As you saw when I was
creating my builds earlier,
I got a little preview in my inspector.
So this is an NSOpenGL view.
It's available in Cocoa.
Basically drop this view into your
Cocoa application and off you go.
Your programming OpenGL is
actually a really good way to get
started with OpenGL programming.
So in this case,
what the user sees in this preview
is exactly what they're going to get
when they go to full screen mode.
How do we get the Quartz 2D
images and text and all that,
path-based shapes, into OpenGL?
We use this abstraction that's in the
center here called a textured rectangle.
So I'll walk you through how we go
from something like an NS image.
We grab data from the image,
apply GL operations to it,
[Transcript missing]
and others are working on
the new features of the new
hardware that's available.
In some cases you want to chop your
textures up on power of two boundaries.
So this textured rectangle
kind of abstracts the fact that
there are this array of smaller
textures that we may have created.
And we also track the target,
the thing that we're going to
actually render the textures to.
The way you initialize this guy,
in this case, there are several,
it's a much bigger API than this,
obviously.
You can create it with a bitmap,
and when you want to draw,
there's an API for
drawing all four corners.
If your model view
matrix isn't transformed,
you actually just want to specify exactly
where the texture's going to draw,
with opacity.
Now, in NSBitmap Image Rep,
the data is actually RGBA.
OpenGL will render this stuff,
but the most efficient way
to do it is using ARGB.
So this is just a very simple method that
swaps the high order and low order bytes.
And it's very fast, and now with ARGB,
we've got kind of the highest
performance manipulation of the
textures on the graphics card.
We want to draw the image.
This first page here shows how
we turn on the opacity support.
So we hand off the GL blend
method to GL enable.
Pass some flags to the GL blend function.
We apply the opacity using GL color 4F.
I'm not actually not the OpenGL expert,
but there's a session on
OpenGL optimization where they kind
of address why that's important,
that the image is pre-multiplied.
In order to render the textures,
as I said, we've got this, you know,
abstraction that hides the fact that
this thing's been chopped up into several
textures on power of two boundaries.
So we walk through the texture
array and blit it all out.
GL_TEX_CORD_2DF and GL_VERTEX_2F to
draw at the corners based on the
offset from the original texture.
So we've chopped it up and we're
keeping track of where the offsets are.
Turn off opacity with the disabling
blending and release the target.
So OpenGL, you know,
we're not just using OpenGL to do,
you know, moving, to do our flips.
You know, the GPU is available.
We found a good way to use
it to accelerate 2D effects,
accelerate Quartz 2D output.
With Cocoa,
you have these high-level abilities
like OpenGL view to do previews
to get started with OpenGL.
And there are several levels of
APIs available with OpenGL that
are all there in OS X.
CGL we use in Keynote to
manage the display and GL for
the lower-level operations.
So the last graphical technology
we'll talk about is QuickTime,
and I've got a little demo here.
[Transcript missing]
I think you can see, you know,
you've got excellent frame rate
while the builds are happening.
and this opacity.
And this is really, you know,
the power of Quartz
Extreme kind of at work here.
So with QuickTime, you've got, you know,
you're really leveraging
all the advantages that are
there within the system.
You've got all the image formats,
and those are available
through NSImage and Cocoa.
All these sound formats, all our,
you know, the sound that we use in Cocoa,
we kind of treat them as movies.
We just play a sound and
obviously full motion video.
And when I say, you know,
you're leveraging the power of QuickTime,
updates to QuickTime come out,
they supply new file formats.
They support new image
formats or movie formats,
and that just works, you know.
QuickTime 6.3 came out a few days,
a few weeks ago.
Suddenly,
Keynote supports exporting 3GPP movies.
So we can export a 3GPP movie of slides,
and, you know,
it's like a little slideshow
preview on your cell phone.
The image file types that
are available on your system,
so it depends on what codecs and what
version of QuickTime are available,
but you can ask NSImage what
image file types are supported.
This returns a list of file
extensions and HFS file types.
So again,
the image formats are available.
It's integrated into NSImage and Cocoa.
You have NSMovieView,
which you can use to preview a
movie and control the playback
and speed and scrub through it.
And a very flexible,
extremely flexible core API for
not only showing movies,
grabbing content from your media,
but also export QuickTime movies.
So when you use NSMovieView,
this is kind of just the simple
look at how you can use NSMovieView.
To actually build kind of a small,
simple version of QuickTime, the API is,
you know, you start to start the motion,
set the rate if you want to fast
forward or reverse through the movie.
You can control volume
and mute the movie.
What we wanted in Keynote,
as I pointed out,
these movies I was building on,
they're all set to a
certain poster frame.
So in this example, the--
The inspector, the top slider,
controls the poster frame that the user
wants to see when the movie comes on.
So you can kind of move this
guy back and forth and you're
scrubbing through the entire movie.
So let me show you how you
do that using NSMovieView.
The slider sends an action called
"take poster frame from the slider."
The slider value would be a percentage.
You want to start at zero or go to 100%
all the way through the end of the movie.
We determine the floating value,
0.5 would be halfway, from the slider.
"Determine the time offset within
the movie that that corresponds to,
that percentage corresponds to,
and then set it on this subclass of
NSMovie that you'd create." You say,
"Set poster time to that offset."
Tell the movie to display that offset,
obviously, as the user scrubs through.
I do believe I missed a slide.
The implementation of those methods
Well, yeah, actually I did miss a slide.
Within the implementation
of set poster time,
you would use QuickTime API,
set movie poster time,
which takes a QuickTime movie and a
time value to set the poster frame.
So that's a case where you're
kind of mixing the high-level
APIs for NSMovieView and the
lower-level APIs of QuickTime.
So, to summarize QuickTime,
phenomenal compatibility
with all these image formats,
media formats, sounds, etc.
Cocoa integration with NSMovieView and
NSImage to support the image formats,
and a rich, comprehensive set of APIs to
control media playback and export.
Finally, XML.
We love XML.
It's really created kind of a
community already around Keynote.
There are applications available that
manipulate and use the Keynote format.
We think XML is a great way
to encourage innovation,
get other parties involved
in supporting your app,
encouraging use of your application.
Finally, XML.
It's really created kind of a
community already around Keynote.
There are applications available that
manipulate and use the Keynote format.
We think XML is a great way
to encourage innovation,
get other parties involved
in supporting your app,
encouraging use of your application.
Very simple way to do some testing.
Validate the output.
Make sure that your archiving or your
unarchiving code is actually generating
documents that conform to the standard
that you've specified for your XML.
What do you get in OS X?
Core Foundation has several
layers of XML support.
If you're just using NSCoder, NSCoder,
if you're not familiar,
is kind of the standard way of
serializing objects in Cocoa.
And you can tell NSCoder to
use an XML format.
The standard format's binary.
You pass to NSCoder this flag,
property list XML format,
then the output will be XML,
and that property list format
is defined on some website.
I think it's on ADC someplace.
You have within Core Foundation a
high-level parser,
which you just handed a document
or a stream of XML text.
It hands back the structure
called the CFXML tree,
so you can then walk through elements,
data, and attributes for each node,
construct your data model that way,
or just maybe manipulate,
search for data, et cetera.
There's also a low-level parser,
which is kind of a SACS-type parser.
Elements are encountered,
attributes are encountered,
and you can define callbacks.
So your code is called into,
then you're going to create
your data model that way.
Thank you.
Well, for Keynote,
we use the low-level parser.
We encounter a slide and we
go off and create a slide.
But when we generate XML,
we actually just use a mutable string.
We just generate this
NSMutable string on the fly.
And this is kind of the
class that we use to do that.
It's called a DOM writer,
a document object model writer.
So you start an element.
You say,
here's what I want to start something
that's a slide or a bullet point.
End it.
Write attributes like what color it uses.
Control formatting with indent,
increase and decrease indent.
And you can also pass in the structure,
this XML element,
similar to CFXML element,
to create -- to write an actual
subtree all the way out to the string.
So our file format is open.
The scheme is available at TechNote 2067.
There's already third-party
developer support.
FileMaker has an application that
generates and a library of code
that generates Keynote documents.
4D has the same thing.
We think there are a lot
of possible applications.
You can obviously pull data off the web,
pull data from your
enterprise data store,
generate kiosks,
presentations with great 3D transitions,
migrate your legacy data
into our tables or builds.
I'm sorry, our tables are charts.
And here's an,
I'm gonna actually give you a demo
of the 4D presentation builder.
What this does is it's,
the user interacts with
this UI to create a query,
it generates the XML,
and the output is a presentation.
I'll show it to you.
So here's the UI.
They've set up this kind of
sample database of properties.
You know, they've got this,
I think they include the
code to generate these,
our format,
but this is just a sample database of,
for instance, real estate properties.
User can go pick a buyer.
So the idea is I'm a real estate agent,
I'm gonna edit properties
of this or that.
Edit attributes of this buyer,
what they want to spend,
where they want to live.
And then create a new presentation.
So it tells me I'm going to
show you all the properties
in this price range at this
This price and this zip code,
and I want to open the new presentation.
So the document's created, Keynote opens,
and I'll just play it.
So now I'm a real estate agent.
I've got this very simple,
simply created little kiosk that I can
show my client who's been sitting
there with me for three minutes.
So you get the idea.
Can you see the slides, please?
Thanks.
So XML, it's great for building a
community around your application.
It's really great for development.
Validate your documents,
generate your documents before your app's
even ready to generate your documents.
And there's support in
Core Foundation for several
levels of XML usage.
So Keynote, as we develop the app,
We found that Cocoa was
the best framework for us.
We made great use of the Cocoa text
capabilities to make it very
simple to get at the very powerful
technology that's available.
We use Quartz for creating beautiful,
graphically rich presentations.
OpenGL for 3D cinematic
effects as well as 2D effects.
QuickTime, we generate QuickTime movies.
We display QuickTime movies.
We have great control over
the QuickTime movies that
are in the presentation.
And XML, again,
an open file format that you
can really build support around.
So what can you get out of this?
Now,
all these technologies are available.
It's a modern operating system.
Make use of the technologies.
If one way of getting at the
feature set you want doesn't work,
there's probably another set of APIs,
and they're all extensible.
First rate tools available
on the operating system.
Take the people you've
got in your organization.
I look forward to seeing your apps.
Thanks a lot.
So what I'd like to do is just go
through the roadmap of the remaining
graphics and imaging related sessions.
Starting tomorrow morning, Wednesday,
in the marina,
we have image capture update.
What we're going to do is talk
about the APIs that are available
in the system that handle both
digital cameras and also scanners.
So if your applications need to
import or bring graphics in from
the real world into the virtual
world inside your computer,
this is the architecture and the
APIs you're going to want to know about.
[Transcript missing]
Then another key session,
if you're an OpenGL application
and you want to learn how to
optimize your application,
or you're a beginning OpenGL programmer
and you want to learn how to do
the right things the first time,
you want to come to 209
OpenGL optimizations.
And this is really going to focus
on providing a lot of information
about the fast path that we
put into Mac OS X's OpenGL.
Because it's interesting,
our OpenGL stack is optimized and
tuned in certain ways that once you put
your application on those fast paths,
you're going to get
unbelievable performance.
So that's 209 on Thursday is
going to go over that.
And then we have 210,
Mac OS X printing update.
And this is going to talk about
a lot of the new developments
in Mac OS X printing.
We're actually going to
talk about one exciting one,
which is the ability for the system
to convert PostScript into PDF now,
which is a new Panther feature.
And that has significant ramifications.
So it's going to be a great tool
for people in printing and imaging.
So it's an excellent session to attend.
Then we have 211,
which is introduction to Quartz services.
This is our first session on Friday.
And this session is going to
talk about essentially the parts
of the Quartz architecture which
do not actually draw anything.
These are the parts that
control and manage displays.
So this is an important session if you
have a full screen application or you
have an application that needs to find
out what the display environment is.
Because there's a lot of API that
developers have had trouble finding
and understanding how to use that we're
going to talk about in this session.
And then we have on 212
our hardware partners,
ATI, coming this year to talk
about essentially the latest
techniques that you can do to do
interesting visual effects using
programmability and their product,
the Radeon 9700.
So that's session 212,
cutting edge OpenGL techniques.
We have a partially related session.
If you're an application developer,
you might want to check out the
Mac OS X accessibility session,
where we're going to be talking
about how to make your applications
accessible to users with disabilities.
It's an important session for anyone
who develops an application to attend,
because there's a large
audience out there who,
through simple changes
in your application,
you may be able to reach new customers
who happen to have a disability.
Finally,
we have the main opportunity for you
guys to give us your feedback and let us
know what you thought of the sessions,
what you want to see inside the OS.
Essentially,
let us know what we need to do to
continue to involve Mac OS X as
the most innovative and graphically
powerful operating system on the planet.
That's the feedback forum,
which is in our traditional slot,
Friday at 5:00 p.m.
Thank you very much for
attending this session.
Appreciate it.